Everyone, here is a short list of tasks we have been busy with:

* Couple improvements to Trie and Dump (our persistance lib) landed in those dependencies. We have better test coverage and we have a detailed todo list regarding further optimizations. We hold up with implementation, because we need one more, a bit more sophisticated test, to check area suspected for functional brakege. We will look at alternatives to Dump lib, which is persistance layer to trie. The new load tests executed from trie level will guide the final choice
* Whole bunch of APIs got ported to Swagger. On the way we changed JSON API objects to be more descriptive (full json objects in favour of JSON lists before). Swagger does for us validation and exposes yuml and JSON Schema files for frontend developers and clients. We are approaching 50% of the scope and it will occupy us for the next 1-2 weeks. The Swagger JSON API runs currently in parallel to the old one and we can compare test results. 
* One of the side effects of Swagger work is further isolation of the code in new project apps. The business logic is now moved to ae_api app and the http implementation lives in ae_http. This is great way for us to introduce entry level tasks for community members. For example: Start implementing API using new protocol: GraphQL, ProtoBuffs... etc. The code is totally isolated and may be sandbox for newcomers
* There is ongoing work around syncing process and handling peers. The gossip protocol is ready but the PR needs more debugging and polishing
* Markets are in!
* Since couple days hearders are first-class objects in our system. This is tremendous optimization for syncing and improvement for handling blocks. It opens a way to implement a switch and be able to run as a lite node
* We started using Github Project Boards! From now on you can see our every move ;) Its not fully up to date with the JIRA that we migrate away, but soon it will be the only planning tool
* Devops improvments: every Pull Request and Push is tested by our test suit run in TravisCI. Every PR must be reviewed by another team member 
* Last but not least, we are bootstraping the frontend team! 

What's next up?

* Finalize work on Trie and persistance
* Cli app to needed to wrap calls from within blockchain to external API of remote peers
* Continue with Swagger -- we need to unblock frontend team by delivering stable and usable API
* Land the improvements around Sync and Gossip
* Moarrrrr tests!!!!
