# Nimiq
#### October 17, 2017

### Introduction to Nimiq

Nimiq is a blockchain being written in javascript.
This means that Nimiq browser-wallets will work very well from the start.
The default wallet will be a browser-wallet.

The usecase Nimiq focuses on is a scalable payment system.
This usecase is good because:
* it huge, a lot of money is sent in payments every year.
* it is such a simple usecase. Nimiq isn't doing much more than bitcoin. Nimiq only stores account pubkeys and balances, far simpler than competitors who are storing arbitrary state.
* no one else has solved it adequately yet, Nimiq can have first mover advantage.

Nimiq is planning on using a lightning network to achieve scalability.
This is the same design choice being used by Amoveo, Bitcoin Hivemind, Ethereum, and others.
Channels are already understood. It isn't a reasearch problem, it is an engineering problem.
Other solutions for scalability, like sharding, are still in the research stage. Maybe it is impossible to do sharding.
Overall, Nimiq is making the right choice by using the lightning network.

### Nimiq's current plan for channels

HTLC channels have some major drawbacks in comparison to the alternative.

* HTLC channels have a problem where if you make multiple lightning payments through the same channel, and the persons receiving the payments are off-line, the memory and computational requirements increase exponentially with the number of lightning payments that haven't been accepted yet. You have to be prepared for any combination of N payments to either succeed or fail, that is 2^N possible outcomes. With HTLC style channels, you would need to write up a different contract for each of the 2^N different possibilities, and both you and the lightning hub would have to sign them all.

* HTLC channels are a hack to make accounts act like channels. This makes the software brittle because if you try to change how either accounts or channels work, it changes them both at once.

* Since Nimiq is using the account's trie design rather than the UTXO pool, it isn't clear how bitcoin-style HTLC channels would even work. These types of channels usually depend on referencing UTXOs for transactions that haven't yet been included in any block. If Nimiq uses both an accounts trie, and a pool of UTXOs, this is a bad combination because the UTXO pool makes light nodes much worse, and it is unnecessary, so we are wasting memory.

### better channels

Nimiq is currently storing accounts in a merkle trie. We can store channels in this trie too.
Nimiq can use 6 different transaction types to program an ideal channel that isn't limited by having to also act as an account. I programmed it into Amoveo.
The code for channels is about 450 lines, it shouldn't be difficult to translate to javascript for nimiq.
You can reuse your accounts database.

This ideal channel's memory and computational requirements only increase linearly with the number of unfinalized lightning payments. So it scales very well.

### better light nodes

When comparing light node designs, it is important to compare the worst case scenario.
In the worst case there could be a valid-looking block header made from an invalid block.
Full nodes can warn light nodes about invalid blocks, but ultimately the light node will have to process that one block to see which side of the fork is valid.
Most blockchain designs require downloading many blocks just to verify one block.
The solution is that for every block there should be a way to deterministically calculate a merkle proof that proves all the data necessary to verify the block.
If Alice's account received or spent coins in a block, then the merkle proof for the block would have to prove what Alice's account looked like before she received or spent coins.
This way you can verify the one block without knowing anything about any other block.
This means we need to add another hash to the headers. The hash of the deterministic merkle proof. This way attackers can't DDOS us by making us verify lots of slightly-invalid merkle proofs attached to valid blocks.
