22 May 2019
======

On this date, for a period of about 28 blocks, all but 2 nodes fell out of sync, only 1 mining pool was functioning.

Loss
======

For about 28 blocks, 1/2 of the hashrate was being wasted. The block reward is 0.4 veo. The price of Veo is $80.
This lowered the difficulty by 1/2 for around 10 blocks, meaning the miners were compensated for 5 of the 28 blocks that were wasted.
``` $(28-5)*0.4*80 = $736 ```

About $736 of hashpower was wasted because of my mistake, and I sincerely apologize to miners and mining pools who are paying this cost.

What happened
======

In the old version of the blocks database, we stored each block as it's own file, and we named the file the root hash of that block. So if you know a block's hash, you can look it up immediately.

A more expensive operation was block:get_by_height/1, which was used for looking up a block by the integer height.
We can not store blocks by height, because if there is a fork, which block should be stored at a particular height could keep switching.

in order to look up a block by height, we would store something called "prev_hashes" inside each block.
Block N contains the root hashes of blocks: N-(2^M), for all M > -1 such that N-(2^M) > 0
So that means block N contains log2(N) root hashes, each of which is 32 bytes.
If we are at height N, and you want to look up a block in history, this algorithm will require at most looking up log2(N) blocks until you find the block that you wanted.

Here is the fatal flaw:
Instead of calculating the prev_hashes independently when you receive the block, we were blindly trusting that they were all correct. This was a critical security vulnerability that could have been used to crash any node in a very insidious way.
By embedding a bad prev_hash, you can cause an error that stays hidden for days or weeks until activating and crashing the node, and it would be practically impossible to figure out why it broke.

This fatal security flaw did not exist in March 2018 when Amoveo was launched. It was inserted at some point along the way, as an optimization to make syncing faster.

The bug we experienced happened because the update to the blocks database changed the prev_hashes to cause exactly this security exploit.

The new blocks_db stores the most recent 200-2000 blocks in ram by block hash, and uses the same log2(N) algorithm to look up these blocks by height. So it only stores the first ~10 most recent prev_hashes. Older blocks are stored on the hard drive in pages, so we use a different algorithm to look them up by height.

The bug occured if an old block_db version of amoveo downloaded a recent block from a node using the new block_db. The block only contained the 10 most recent prev_hashes, but the old node needed all 16 in order to be able to look up blocks correctly.

How we will avoid this in the future
======

1) we have already patched this error. Everyone computes there own prev_hashes now, we never trust a server to provide them.

2) we will do a full review of every part of the blocks and headers that get downloaded to confirm that there is no other data that we are not verifying.

3) we will try doing a testnet for a while, to see if we can make it a cost effective way to reduce the rate of disasters.


Warning
======

This failure should serve us as a warning.
Amoveo is very experimental software.
There is high probability that you will lose everything that you invest in this project.
Invest less than you can afford to lose.
