8 June 2019
======

On this date, for a period of about 8 hours and 7 minutes, which is about 44.3 blocks worth of time, the mining pools were unable to produce any blocks.

Loss
=====

```44.3 blocks * 0.16 veo block reward * $115 per veo = $815```

about $815 of hashpower was wasted because of my mistake, and I sincerely apologize to miners and mining pools who are paying this cost.

What happened
======

The mining pools were only finding invalid blocks.

a month or two back, we had fixed a problem where we were re-writing the same information to the merkel tree that already exists. This fix allows us to sync blocks much faster.

The problem is that I only updated the code for checking the validity of blocks from other people, and in some cases it is not identical to what happens in the code for making new blocks.

This bug was difficult because it only appeared in mining pools, and it only appeared in blocks that had already been mined.
So this meant the rate of the development cycle was as slow as the rate of finding blocks.
one cycle per 11 minutes. Whereas normally I can do a development cycle every 10 seconds.


What we will do to prevent this in the future
=======

1) We have already fixed the block:make and block:check functions to be identical.

The next step will be to abstract away the parts of these functions that are identical, to remove the repetition from the old functions.
Avoiding duplicate code will avoid this type of bug in the future.

2) We did an update so now you can more easily tell if your database is corrupted. you can do potential_block:read(). to see if your node can produce blocks, and if that crashes, then it means you need to resync.

3) We did an upgrade so that if a tx will fail the counterfit test, now it fails at the step of adding it to the mempool, instead of the step of syncing a block that already has POW.


MVP Sy
=====

Sy really showed his value today. He was able to rapidly decipher error log files, rapidly test new code on multiple servers, accurately communicate what went wrong, and precisely execute commands I sent to him, quickly giving me feedback.
If not for his support, this bug could have easily taken a week or longer to fix.

