Democracy is a popular idea today. Many people want to use voting in their cryptocurrency consensus mechanisms.
The reason we haven't been able to use voting so far is because the incentive to vote honestly decreases by the square of the portion of coins that you own. So the cost of bribing a voter to be malicious is much smaller than how many coins the voter controls.
Threshold signature schemes have been proposed as a way to overcome this limitation. If you cannot know how a person voted, then you cannot know whether to bribe them.

The goal of this paper is to prove that threshold signatures scheme can not be good enough.
It is mathematically impossible for them to have the anonymity properties we need.

Example: Alice, Bob, Charlie, Dan, and Evan are participating in a 3 out of 5 threshold signature scheme. Alice, Bob, and Charlie want to sign, Dan and Evan do not want to sign. Alice, Bob, and Charlie want to prove that they signed.
If threshold signatures were good enough for anonymous voting, that would mean it is impossible for any of Alice, Bob, Charlie, Dan or Evan to prove how they participated, even if they all reveal their private keys.

Each person can choose to contribute to the signature. So there are up to 5 signature pieces that are created, which when combined form a valid signature. Lets call them: A, B, C, D, E.

Because Alice, Bob, and Charlie want to prove that they signed, they show their signature pieces A, B, and C to the attacker first. Before they even show these pieces to each other.
That way the attacker can use A, B, and C to generate the signature. The attacker can publish the signature that is stored on-chain, so the attacker is certain that A, B, and C were the pieces used to make the signature. The attacker is certain that A, B, and C weren't generated by users who were too late to matter. 

If Alice, Bob, and Charlie's private keys are revealed, then it is possible for the attacker to re-create the signature pieces. During this recreation process the attacker learns which signature pieces were generated from which user, and he learns which private keys were not used to generate any of the pieces he knows about.

The threshold signature scheme involves an algorithm that combines signature pieces into a signature.
We can keep testing this algorithm on different subsets of signature pieces.
Combine(A, B, C, D, E) produces a valid signature.
Combine(A, B, C) produces a valid signature.
Combine(A, B, D) produces an invalid signature.
Combine(A, B, E) produces an invalid signature.

So, we can prove which signature pieces are valid, and which are not.

The attacker knows which valid signature piece came from which person,
and he also knows which signature pieces are valid,
therefore it is possible for participants to prove that they participated.
therefore threshold signatures are not anonymous enough to be used for blockchain consensus.